# Ion-Qubit Coherence Measurement
---------------
We use ions prepared close to their ground states of motion (Doppler cooled) to investigate the interaction of a single qubit with a thermal bath which is simulated by using ion chain. The single qubit is coupled to neighbouring ions via exchaned phonon which are created due to the motion of the ions and propagate across the ion chain.   
The experimental sequence (as descibed in the code) measures the coherence of the ion/qubit by probing the Rabi oscialltion of motional excitation (i.e., phonons/bosons) at certain interation time using pulsed laser tunned from the electronic transion of the ion (carrier) by an offest frequency equivalent to the trapping frequency of the ion. Such frequency well known as the blue/red sidebands with respect to the carrier.  
This is a standard Ramsey measurements but implemented in a flexible way to allow carrying the same measurement on the sidebands (the quantized classical motion) same as on the carrier. Arguably, it has the same representation on the Block sphere and it is possible to executed the experimental sequence at each data point with different phases (four angles on the Block sphere in this case) while rapidly varying the gap time between the two Ramsey pulses. In this code I only randomize the phase of the last pulse while keeping the phase of the first pulse constant. Another feature which I randomize is the Ramsey interval (the period between the two pulses), as described. 
I find this approach reveals very interesting coherence revival after certain time, depending on the dimension of the system, and I think it will be very useful to use to study quantum features in other different systems, such as superconduction qubits and Bose-Einstein condensate. It could be a basic ingredient for experimental quantum tomography toolbox.  

Acknowledgement: Most of the libraries in the code (commented as '#Joint efforts') have been created by several colleagues of mine, undergraduate and graduate students at UC Berkeley. This is a part of a very large experimental sequence (code) being built over the last six years, and we still continue improving this beautiful peace of art. 
